{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f2\fnil Cambria;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red54\green95\blue145;\red79\green129\blue189;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 {\b\f0\fs32\lang9{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.notion.so/adarsha-khatua/SchoolLog-28e931cca4fb48188fcad7f84a5e5dc9 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.notion.so/adarsha-khatua/SchoolLog-28e931cca4fb48188fcad7f84a5e5dc9\ul0\cf0}}}}\b\f0\fs32\lang2057\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://lavender-boron-b65.notion.site/SchoolLog-20da953734b580108972e608d3c5f060 }}{\fldrslt{https://lavender-boron-b65.notion.site/SchoolLog-20da953734b580108972e608d3c5f060\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs32\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx360 {\b0\f1\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://better-tamarillo-d08.notion.site/React-1374ba51266c8059b345e0d615db389c }}{\fldrslt{https://better-tamarillo-d08.notion.site/React-1374ba51266c8059b345e0d615db389c\ul0\cf0}}}}\cf2\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs26 1. React Basics\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is React?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of React in software development?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the key features of React?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 Is React a library or a framework?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is SPA (Single Page Application)?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the advantages of using React?\par
\lang2057 7\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the disadvantages of using React?\par
\lang2057 8\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the difference between React and ReactDOM?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 2. JSX (JavaScript XML)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is JSX in React?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the advantages of JSX?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 Can a browser read a JSX file?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What are Babel and Transpiler in React?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the difference between Compiler and Transpiler?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 Is it possible to use JSX without React?\par
\lang2057 7\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of Fragment in JSX?\par
\lang2057 8\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the Spread Operator in JSX?\par
\lang2057 9\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the types of Conditional Rendering in JSX?\tab  \par
\lang2057 10\f2\lang9  \f1 How do you iterate over a list in JSX? What is the map() method?\par
\lang2057 11\f2\lang9  \f1 What is Arrow Function Expression in JSX?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 3. DOM vs Virtual DOM\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1 \lang9 What is DOM?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the difference between HTML and DOM?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What is Virtual DOM?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the difference between DOM and Virtual DOM?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 How does React\f2\rquote\f1 s Virtual DOM improve application performance?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 4. Components\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What are React components?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the main elements of a component?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the types of React components?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What are functional components?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What are class components?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the difference between functional and class components?\par
\lang2057 7\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of this keyword in class components?\par
\lang2057 8\f2\lang9  \f1 What are controlled and uncontrolled components in React?\par
\lang2057 9\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the characteristics and advantages of controlled components?\par
\lang2057 10\f2\lang9  \f1 In what scenarios might using uncontrolled components be advantageous?\par
\lang2057 11\f2\lang9  \f1 What is Prop Drilling and why should we avoid it?\par
\lang2057 12\f2\lang9  \f1 How can we avoid Prop Drilling?\par
\lang2057 13\f2\lang9  \f1 How do you pass data bet  ween functional/class components?\par
\lang2057 14\f2\lang9  \f1 Can we change the data in the child prop?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 5. Files, Folders & Setup\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is NPM?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the node_modules folder?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What is package.json and package-lock.json? Why are they used?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the public folder?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the src folder?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the index.html page in React?\par
\lang2057 7\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of App.js?\par
\lang2057 8\f2\lang9  \f1 Can we have a function and return inside App.js?\par
\lang2057 9\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of export default in App.js?\par
\lang2057 10\f2\lang9  \f1 Does the file name and component name have to be the same?\par
\lang2057 11\f2\lang9  \f1 How to set up a React project?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 6. React Lifecycle\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the component lifecycle phases?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What are lifecycle methods in class components?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of constructor and super() in class components?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of render()?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is componentDidMount() used for?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 How is state maintained in a class component?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 7. Hooks Overview\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What are React Hooks?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What are the top React Hooks?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What are state/stateless/stateful components and state management?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 8. useState\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the useState() hook?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 Why do we use useState()?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 How does useState() work?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 9. useEffect\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useEffect()?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the dependency array in useEffect()?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What does an empty dependency array ([]) mean?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What happens if you don\f2\rquote\f1 t provide a dependency array?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the cleanup function in useEffect() and why is it essential? (Give example)\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 10. useMemo & useCallback\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useMemo()? When would you use it?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 Describe a situation where you would use useMemo() to optimize performance.\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useCallback()? Provide example.\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 Explain the difference between useMemo() and useCallback().\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 11. Routing in React\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is Routing and Router in React?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 How to implement routing in React?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of <Routes> and <Route>?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 What are Route Parameters?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the Switch component?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the role of the exact prop?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 12. useContext & useReducer\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useContext() hook?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What is createContext() method?\par
\lang2057 3\f2\lang9  \f1 What are Provider & Consumer in context?\par
\lang2057 4\f2\lang9  \f1 When should you use useContext() instead of props?\par
\lang2057 5\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useReducer()?\par
\lang2057 6\f2\lang9  \f1 When to use useState() vs useReducer()?\par
\lang2057 7\f2\lang9  \f1 What are dispatch and reducer functions in useReducer()?\par
\lang2057 8\f2\lang9  \f1 What is the purpose of passing an initial state as an object?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 13. Performance Optimization\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 How do you optimize performance in React apps?\par
\lang2057 2\f2\lang9  \f1 What strategies can you use for performance optimization?\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\b\f0\fs26 14. Extra\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\lang2057 1\f2\lang9  \f1 What is useRef() in React and how does it work? Provide example.\par
\cf4\ul\b\f0\fs32\par
IMPLEMENTATION\cf0\ulnone\b0\fs22\line\cf3\b\fs26 1. How is useState implemented in class components?\par
2. How would you use the useRef hook to style a button in a React component?\par
4. How would you access and manipulate a button element in a React component?\par
5. How would you create a custom hook in React that takes two numbers and returns their sum?\par
7. Can you provide an example demonstrating how useMemo and useCallback prevent unnecessary re-renders?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\lang2057\par
}
 